In Git, 
branching is a powerful feature that allows you to diverge from the main line of development to work on a new feature, fix a bug, or experiment safely without messing up your stable code.
Unlike older version control systems where branches copy heavy folders of files, a Git branch is simply a lightweight, movable pointer to a commit. 
This makes creating and switching branches nearly instantaneous.
🚀 Essential Branching Workflow
Here are the primary commands you will use to manage branches day-to-day.
1. Checking Your Statusgit branchLists all local branches in your repository. 
  An asterisk (*) will appear next to the branch you are currently working on.
2. Creating a Branchgit branch <branch-name>Creates a new branch pointer at your current commit but does not switch you to it.
3. Switching Branchesgit switch <branch-name>  (Recommended)Switches your working directory to the specified branch.git checkout <branch-name>The older, traditional command used to switch branches.
4. The Short-Cut (Create & Switch)git switch -c <branch-name> or git checkout -b <branch-name>Creates a brand new branch and immediately hooks your environment into it so you can start working right away.
5. Merging Changes BackOnce you have finished making changes in your isolated branch and have committed your work, you will want to pull those changes back into your primary branch (usually main or master):
    Move back to your destination branch: git switch main
    Merge the feature branch: git merge <branch-name>
6. Deleting a Branch
    git branch -d <branch-name>Deletes the branch locally. 
    Git will safely block this if the changes haven't been merged yet.
    git branch -D <branch-name>Forces deletion of the branch, throwing away any unmerged work.

🗺️ Common Branching StrategiesDepending on how your team collaborates, you will typically follow a structured workflow to keep the code clean:
1. Feature Branching: Every new piece of work (like a login page or an analytical button) gets its own temporary branch. Once tested and approved via code review, it is merged into the main line and deleted.
2. Gitflow Workflow: A more rigid framework ideal for managing scheduled releases. It utilizes dedicated, long-running branches: main (production-ready code), develop (integration branch for features), alongside temporary feature, release, and hotfix branches.
